<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: A Bus-Driver’s Holiday</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Bus-Driver’s Holiday</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Sir Clinton Driffield, after a careful examination of the lie, deliberately put down a long putt on the last green of the Lynden Sands course. His opponent, Stanley Fleetwood, stooped and picked up his own ball.</p>
			<p>“Your hole and match,” he said, handing his putter back to his caddie.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>
			<p>“Thanks for the game,” he said. “We seem to be fairly even. Much more fun when the thing’s in doubt up to the last green. Yes, you might clean ’em,” he added in reply to his caddie’s inquiry. “I shan’t want them until tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>A girl had been sitting on one of the seats overlooking the green; and, as the caddie replaced the pin in the hole, she rose to her feet and came down towards the players. Stanley Fleetwood waved to her, and then, in response to her mute question, he made a gesture of defeat.</p>
			<p>“This is Sir Clinton Driffield, Cressida,” he explained, as they met.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton had trained himself to observe minutely without betraying that he was doing so; and he had a habit of mentally docketing the results of his scrutiny. Mannerisms were the points which he studied with most attention. As Cressida Fleetwood came slowly towards them, his apparently casual glance took in mechanically the picture of a dark-haired girl still in her twenties, slim and graceful; but his attention fastened mainly on a faint touch of shyness which added to her charm; and in the expression of her eyes he believed he read something more uncommon. It seemed as though a natural frankness had been overlaid by a tinge of mistrust in the world.</p>
			<p>“I hope I didn’t rob you of a game this morning by taking your husband away, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Fleetwood,” he said, as they turned up the path leading to the hotel.</p>
			<p>Cressida reassured him at once.</p>
			<p>“As it happened,” she explained, “I didn’t feel inclined to play today, so he was left at a loose end; and when you took pity on him, I was very glad to have my conscience cleared.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it was lucky for me,” Sir Clinton answered. “The friend who’s staying with me just now wouldn’t come out this morning. He strained his foot slightly yesterday. So I was left in the lurch, and I was very fortunate in finding <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fleetwood free to take me on.”</p>
			<p>They entered the grounds of the hotel, and, at a turn in the path, Cressida Fleetwood bowed to a girl who passed their group. The newcomer was handsome rather than pretty; and there was a hint of hardness in her face which detracted a little from her charm. She was dressed with a finish rather unusual at that time of day in a golfing hotel; and her walk lacked the free swing characteristic of the athletic English girl. Written fairly plainly on her were the signs of a woman who has had to look after her own interests and who has not always come out a winner in the game.</p>
			<p>When she had passed out of earshot, Cressida turned to her husband.</p>
			<p>“That’s the French girl I told you about, Stanley⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mme.</abbr> Laurent-Desrousseaux. I found her in some difficulty or other at the hotel desk⁠—her English isn’t quite perfect⁠—so I helped her out a little.”</p>
			<p>Stanley Fleetwood nodded without comment; and Sir Clinton had little difficulty in seeing that he had no desire for his wife to extend her acquaintance with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mme.</abbr> Laurent-Desrousseaux. He could not help speculating as to the cause which had brought the Frenchwoman into this quiet backwater, where she had no amusements, apparently, and no acquaintances.</p>
			<p>Before he had time to turn the matter over in his mind, however, his train of thought was interrupted by the appearance of a fresh figure.</p>
			<p>“How’s the strain, squire?” he greeted the newcomer; and, as Wendover came up to the group, he introduced him to his two companions.</p>
			<p>“I hope you enjoyed your round,” said Wendover, turning to Stanley Fleetwood. “Did he manage to work off any of his special expertise on you this morning?”</p>
			<p>“He beat me, if that’s what you mean.”</p>
			<p>“H’m! He beats me usually,” Wendover confessed. “I don’t mind being beaten by play; but I hate to be beaten by the rules.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wendover? You seem to have a grievance,” Cressida asked, seeing a twinkle in Wendover’s eye.</p>
			<p>“The fact is,” Wendover explained, “yesterday my ball rolled up against a large worm on the green and stopped there. I’m of a humane disposition, so I bent down to remove the worm, rather than putt across its helpless body. He objected, if you please, on the ground that one may not remove anything growing. I don’t know whether it was growing or not⁠—it looked to me remarkably well grown for a worm, and had probably passed the growing age. But, when I urged that, he simply floored me by quoting a recent decision of the Royal and Ancient on the point.”</p>
			<p>“If you play a game, you must play <em>that</em> game and not one you invent on the spur of the moment, squire,” Sir Clinton warned him, with no sign of sympathy in his tone. “Ignorance of the law is no excuse.”</p>
			<p>“Hark to the chief constable!” Wendover complained. “Of course, his mind dotes on the legal aspect of things, and he’s used to keeping all sorts of rules and regulations in his head. His knowledge of the laws of golf is worth a couple of strokes on his handicap on any average round.”</p>
			<p>Cressida glanced at Sir Clinton.</p>
			<p>“Are you really a chief constable?” she asked. “Somehow you aren’t like the idea I had of chief constables.”</p>
			<p>“I’m on holiday at present,” Sir Clinton answered lightly; “perhaps that makes a difference. But I’m sorry to fall below your ideal⁠—especially in my own district. If you could tell me what you miss, perhaps I could get it. What’s wanted? Constabulary boots, or beetle-brows, or a notebook ready to hand, or a magnifying glass, or anything of that sort?”</p>
			<p>“Not quite. But I thought you’d look more like an official somehow.”</p>
			<p>“Well, in a way that’s a compliment. I’ve spent a fair part of my existence trying hard <em>not</em> to look like an official. I wasn’t born a chief constable, you know. I was once a mere detective sort of person at the other end of the world.”</p>
			<p>“Were you really? But, then, you don’t look like my idea of a detective, either!”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton laughed.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid you’re hard to please, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Fleetwood. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wendover’s just as bad. He’s a faithful reader of the classics, and he simply can’t imagine anyone going in for detective work without a steely eye and a magnifying glass. It jars on his finer feelings merely to think of a detective without either of them. The only thing that saves me is that I’m not a detective nowadays; and he salves his conscience by refusing to believe that I ever was one.”</p>
			<p>Wendover took up the challenge.</p>
			<p>“I’ve only seen you at work once in the detective line,” he confessed, “and I must admit I thought your methods were simply deplorable, Clinton.”</p>
			<p>“Quite right,” Sir Clinton admitted: “I disappointed you badly in that Maze affair, I know. Even the success in the end hardly justified the means employed in reaching it. Let’s draw a veil, eh?”</p>
			<p>They had reached the door of the hotel, and, after a few words, Cressida and her husband went into the building.</p>
			<p>“Nice pair they make,” Wendover remarked, glancing after them as they went. “I like to see youngsters of that type. They somehow make you feel that the younger generation isn’t any worse than its parents; and that it has a good deal less fuss about it, too. Reinstates one’s belief in humanity, and all that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” Sir Clinton concurred, with a faint twinkle in his eye. “Some people one takes to instinctively. It’s the manner that does it. I remember a man I once ran across⁠—splendid fellow, charm, magnetic personality, and so on.”</p>
			<p>His voice died away, as though he had lost interest in the matter.</p>
			<p>“Yes?” Wendover inquired, evidently feeling that the story had stopped too soon.</p>
			<p>“He was the worst poker-sharp on the liner,” Sir Clinton added gently, “Charm of manner was one of his assets, you know.”</p>
			<p>Wendover’s annoyance was only half-feigned.</p>
			<p>“You’ve a sordid mind, Clinton. I don’t like to hear you throwing out hints about people in that way. Anyone can see that’s a girl out of the common; and all you can think of in that connection is cardsharps.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed sobered by his friend’s vexation.</p>
			<p>“You’re quite right, squire,” he agreed. “She’s out of the common, as you say. I don’t know anything about her history, but it doesn’t take much to see that something’s happened to her. She looks as if she’d taken the world at her own measure at first, trusted everybody. And then she got a devil of a shock one day. At least, if that isn’t in her eyes, then I throw in my hand. I’ve seen the same expression once or twice before.”</p>
			<p>They entered the hotel and sat down in the lounge. Wendover glanced from the window across the links.</p>
			<p>“This place will be quite good when the new course has been played over for a year or two. I shouldn’t wonder if Lynden Sands became fairly popular.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton was about to reply when a pageboy entered the lounge and paraded slowly across it, chanting in a monotonous voice:</p>
			<p>“Number eighty-nine! Number eighty-nine! Number eighty-nine!”</p>
			<p>The chief constable sat up sharply and snapped his fingers to attract the pageboy’s attention.</p>
			<p>“That’s the number of my room,” he said to Wendover, “but I can’t think of anyone who might want me. Nobody knows me in this place.”</p>
			<p>“You number eighty-nine, sir?” the pageboy demanded. “There’s somebody asking for you. Inspector Armadale, he said his name was.”</p>
			<p>“Armadale? What the devil can he be wanting?” Sir Clinton wondered aloud. “Show him in, please.”</p>
			<p>In a minute or two the inspector appeared.</p>
			<p>“I suppose it’s something important, inspector,” Sir Clinton greeted him, “otherwise you wouldn’t have come. But I can’t imagine what brings you here.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale glanced at Wendover, and then, without speaking, he caught Sir Clinton’s eye. The chief constable read the meaning in his glance.</p>
			<p>“This is a friend of mine, inspector⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wendover. He’s a <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">J.P.</abbr> and perfectly reliable. You can speak freely before him, if it’s anything official.”</p>
			<p>Armadale was obviously relieved.</p>
			<p>“This is the business, Sir Clinton. This morning we had a phone message from the Lynden Sands doctor. It seems the caretaker at a big house hereabouts⁠—Foxhills, they call it⁠—was found dead, close to his cottage. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Rafford went up to see the body; and at first he thought it was a case of apoplexy. Then he noticed some marks on the body that made him suspicious, and he says he won’t give a death certificate. He put the matter into our hands at once. There’s nobody except a constable hereabouts, so I’ve come over myself to look into things. Then it struck me you were staying at the hotel here, and I thought I’d drop in on my way up.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton gazed at the inspector with a very faintly quizzical expression.</p>
			<p>“A friendly call?” he said. “That’s very nice. Care to stay to lunch?”</p>
			<p>The inspector evidently had not expected to find the matter taken in this way.</p>
			<p>“Well, sir,” he said tentatively, “I thought perhaps you might be interested.”</p>
			<p>“Intensely, inspector, intensely. Come and tell me all about it when it’s cleared up. I wouldn’t miss it.”</p>
			<p>Faint signs of exasperation betrayed themselves in the inspector’s face.</p>
			<p>“I thought, perhaps, sir, that you’d care to come over with me and look into the thing yourself. It seems a bit mysterious.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton stared at him in well-assumed amazement.</p>
			<p>“We seem to be rather at cross-purposes, inspector. Let’s be clear. First of all, I’m on holiday just now, and criminal affairs have nothing to do with me. Second, even if I weren’t on holiday, a chief constable isn’t specially attached to the find-’em-and-grab-’em branch of the service. Third, it might cause professional jealousy, heartburnings, and whatnot, if I butted into a detective’s case. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>“It’s my case,” Armadale said, abandoning all further attempt at camouflage. “The plain truth is, from all I heard over the phone, that it seems a rum business; and I’d like to have your opinion on it, if you’d be so good as to give me it after you’ve examined things for yourself.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton’s face relaxed.</p>
			<p>“Ah,” he confessed. “Now I seem to have some glimmerings of what you’re after; and, since there’s no question of my having interfered without being asked, I might look into the affair. But if I’m doing you a favour⁠—as you seem to think⁠—then I’m going to lay down one condition, <i xml:lang="la">sine qua non</i>. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wendover’s interested in detective work. He knows all the classics: Sherlock Holmes, Hanaud, Thorndyke, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> So, if I come in, then he’s to be allowed to join us. Agree to that, inspector?”</p>
			<p>The inspector looked rather sourly at Wendover, as though trying to estimate how great a nuisance he was likely to prove; but, as Sir Clinton’s assistance could evidently be secured only at a price, Armadale gave a rather ungracious consent to the proposed arrangement.</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton seemed almost to regret his own decision.</p>
			<p>“I’d hardly bargained for a bus-driver’s holiday,” he said rather ruefully.</p>
			<p>A glance at the inspector’s face showed that the expression had missed its mark. Sir Clinton made his meaning clearer.</p>
			<p>“In the old horse-bus days, inspector, it was rumoured that when a bus-driver got a holiday he spent it on somebody else’s bus, picking up tips from the driver. It seems that you want me to spend my holiday watching you do police work and picking up tips from your methods.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Armadale evidently suspected something behind the politeness with which Sir Clinton had turned his phrase. He looked rather glumly at his superior as he replied:</p>
			<p>“I see I’m going to get the usual mixture, sir⁠—help and sarcasm, half and half. Well, my hide’s been tanned already; and your help’s worth it.”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton corrected him with an air of exactitude.</p>
			<p>“What I said was that I’d ‘look into the affair.’ It’s your case, inspector. I’m not taking it off your shoulders, you understand. I don’t mind prowling round with you; but the thing’s in your hands officially, and I’ve nothing to do with it except as a spectator, remember.”</p>
			<p>Armadale’s air became even gloomier when he heard this point of view so explicitly laid down.</p>
			<p>“You mean it’s to be just the same as the Ravensthorpe affair, I suppose,” he suggested. “Each of us has all the facts we collect, but you don’t tell me what you think of them as we get them. Is that it, sir?”</p>
			<p>Sir Clinton nodded.</p>
			<p>“That’s it, inspector. Now, if you and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wendover will go round to the front of this place, I’ll get my car out and pick you up in a minute or two.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
